okay the next topic related to language
modeling has to do with noisy channel
models so what is the noisy channel
model why is it so important in natural
language processing let's look at an
example first suppose that we have a
hypothetical system that takes as input
to hit in English let's call that X and
then we have some sort of an encoder
that randomly garbles the input
converting it to Y which is some sort of
garbled English so the output is now
going to be what we call spoken English
or Y and what does this garbling do well
it's just going to convert the original
sequence of words in English as they are
written into an audio signal that
corresponds to the spoken English let's
look at more examples we can convert
grammatical English X to English with
grammatical mistakes Y we can convert
English X to bitmaps or characters
that's why so in the most general case a
noisy channel model is used to determine
the connection between a joint
probability of two sequences as the
product of the first sequence times the
probability of the second one given the
first one so we can think of it as and
process of encoding and decoding so
given a foreign language string we want
to guess the english-language version so
we assume that E was converted to F
using an encoder that converts e to F
and then we want to build a decoder that
converts F into E and here I'm using
this notation E with an apostrophe to
indicate that this is just our estimate
of e that doesn't mean that it's the
original it's just our best guess as to
what e is how do we determine e while e
is going to be the value that maximizes
the conditional probability of the
English sentence given the foreign
sender so the probability of e given F
and according to the previous example in
the Bayesian formula we can write this
as the expression e that maximizes the
product of the conditional probability F
given E times the probability of E so
what are those two well PFF given e is a
noisy channel model or
known as a translation model and P of e
is the language model we already know
what the language model looks like it
just takes a sequence of words in a
given language in this case in English
and it tells us how likely it is that
that particular sequence is a valid
sentence now we're going to introduce
the translation model it which
essentially tells us given a certain
sentence in English what's the
probability that this particular
sentence in the foreign language
corresponds to the sentence in English
so here's an example from French we want
to translate La Maison Blanche from
French into English for those of you who
know no French this just means the white
house so here's some possible
translations the first one is we're
going to translate this as cat plays
piano
well obviously the probability that this
foreign string La Maison Blanche matches
the English string cat bass piano is
very low we're going to put the minus in
that box what about the english-language
probability of cat plays piano again
this is not a valid sentence so we're
also going to get give it a score of a
low score the next one is a little bit
better we have as a possible translation
house white da well this is not a
grammatical sentence but at least it
matches the right words in the French so
we're going to give it a positive score
for the translation model and a negative
score for the language model next one is
a little bit better the house white
again it's not a grammatical sentence in
English but it matches the words in
French so we're going to give it the
same set of scores as the previous
example now let's look at two other
examples the red house well the house is
a valid sequence of words in English but
in French this doesn't match because the
word red doesn't match any of the words
in the original sentence in French the
small cat is also valid English sentence
but it's not anything that matches the
French words so we're going to give both
of those examples a negative score for
the translation mode and finally the
sequence the white house is going to
have obviously a high scores on both of
those features it's going to have a high
language modeling probability because
it's a valid noun phrase in English and
it's going to have a high translation
score because
it has the same words as the original
French sentence so the idea of
translation models like this is to come
up with all the possible sequences of
words in English of the right length and
to try to figure out based on the two
probabilities in the two columns which
one is the best translation of the
original sentence so the good
translation is going to have a high
score on the language model and also a
high score on the translation model and
if there many phrases that have high
scores on both of those we're just going
to multiply those two probabilities and
pick the one that has the highest
product so what are some possible uses
of the noisy channel model well we
mentioned machine translation but there
are many others for example the it can
be used in handwriting recognition in
handwriting recognition the input is
going to be a bitmap of what you hold
and the output is going to be an English
sentence if you can also be used in text
generation in text summarization in
machine translation and spelling
correction so for example spelling
correction we can use it to model the
probability that a certain type of
mistake is going to be made and we have
a separate lecture on edit distance and
text similarity that is going to talk
about this poem
tsuki is a an example of spelling
correction this example comes from Peter
Norvig
the idea is that we have a word - th e w
that was clearly a mistake there is no
such word in English and you want to
predict which of the candidate words in
the second column are the most likely
substitutions so the first one is the
word duh the next one is to leave the
word alone the third one is to be pasty
with an A and get the word so the next
one is to insert an R so we would have
the word through and finally we have a
replacement that swaps two adjacent
letters and get another nonsensical word
thw e so now we need to figure out what
are the conditions that make those
substitutions possible so in the first
example we are looking at the
probability that we're going to replace
you w with e so the probability of this
is very small but the probability of C
is very large why do we get those
well it's very likely that we're going
to insert a W in the middle of a word
but the word duh is grammatical English
so it's going to have a very high score
on P of C the next one is 2 th e W it
gets a very high probability in the
first column because it just means that
no type was made however the probability
that this is a valid word in English is
very very small
the third example we have again
different numbers the probability that
this mistake is going to happen to
replacing the e with an a has a
probability of one in a thousand and
then the probability that though is an
actual English word is relatively high
because it is a real English word and so
on we can add the missing values in the
other cells of the table and then in the
last column we can multiply the two
probabilities the translation or the
probability with the language model
probability and here for a client we are
also going to multiply them with the
billion so we're going to have numbers
that are around 1 in this case the first
suggested spelling correction is going
to be to replace th e w with the it's
going to have a score of 144 the second
alternative is to keep it as it is with
a score of 90 and then we have three
more substitutions that are possible but
have much lower probabilities so the
scores are respectively zero point seven
zero point zero three and one in 10,000
so if you interested in more detail
about this you can look at Peter Novak's
section on engrams in his book at this
URL so this concludes the section on
noisy language models and we're going to
continue now with the next topic on part
of speech tagging